content/docs/sft.mdx, before:

---
title: SFT
description: Generating SFT datasets from Harbor trials
---

Harbor includes utilities for turning trials (agent task completion attempts) into conversational traces that can be fed into supervised fine-tuning pipelines for agentic LLMs. Export helpers live under `harbor.utils.traces_utils` and power several CLI entry points.

<Callout title="CLI flags only work for Terminus 2" type="warning">
Today the exporter only understands the `terminus-2` agent output structure. Runs produced by other agents will raise a `NotImplementedError`. We welcome PRs to add trace generation support for other agents.
</Callout>

- Each exported row represents one `agent/episode-*` directory and captures the input `debug.json` messages plus the final agent reply from `response.json` or `response.txt`.
- Rows include metadata such as `agent`, `model`, `model_provider`, `task`, `trial_name`, `episode`, and `run_id`, letting you merge runs from multiple jobs.
- `--sharegpt` adds a ShareGPT-style column to support instruction-tuning datasets expecting the `{"from": "...", "value": "..."}` schema.
- Success filtering (`--filter success|failure`) inspects `result.json` and lets you keep only passing or failing attempts for curriculum-style datasets.

Run `harbor traces export` on a trial directory (or a parent directory) to build a `datasets.Dataset`. The command prints the number of rows produced and, when `--push` is set, uploads directly to the Hugging Face Hub.

```bash
harbor traces export \
  --path trials \
  --recursive \
  --episodes last \
  --filter success \
  --sharegpt \
  --push \
  --repo my-org/harbor-terminus2-sft
```

### Key options

import { TypeTable } from 'fumadocs-ui/components/type-table';

<TypeTable
  type={{
    "--episodes": {
      description: "Choose whether every episode (all) or only the final attempt per trial (last) is exported.",
      type: "all | last",
      default: "all"
    },
    "--sharegpt / --no-sharegpt": {
      description: "Adds (or disables) a ShareGPT-compatible column alongside the OpenAI-format conversations.",
      type: "flag",
      default: "Disabled"
    },
    "--filter": {
      description: "Keep only runs with positive (or zero) rewards (when result.json is present).",
      type: "success | failure | all",
      default: "all"
    },
    "--push": {
      description: "Upload the assembled dataset to the repo given by --repo. Provide HF_TOKEN or HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN in your environment for auth.",
      type: "flag",
      default: "Disabled"
    },
    "--verbose": {
      description: "Print per-trial discovery details, useful for debugging missing episodes.",
      type: "flag",
      default: "Disabled"
    }
  }}
/>

If you want to persist the dataset locally (e.g., to Parquet), call the Python helper directly:

```python
from harbor.utils.traces_utils import export_traces

dataset = export_traces("trials", episodes="last", success_filter="success")
dataset.to_parquet("harbor-terminus2-success.parquet")
```

The `datasets` library is an optional dependency; install it if you plan to export traces.

`harbor run` can export traces automatically once a job completes. Pass trace flags alongside your job invocation:

```bash
harbor run \
  --config examples/configs/job.yaml \
  --agent claude-code \
  --model anthropic/claude-3-sonnet-20240229 \
  --export-traces \
  --export-sharegpt \
  --export-episodes last \
  --export-push \
  --export-repo my-org/harbor-job-run
```

When `--export-traces` is set, Harbor exports from the produced job directory using the same machinery as `harbor traces export`. The `--export-*` options mirror the standalone CLI flags and default to in-memory exports unless `--export-push` is provided. Errors during export are surfaced at the end of the job run without interrupting evaluation.

`harbor sweeps run` can emit split datasets that separate successful and failed trajectories. Supply `--push` together with one of the repo arguments:

```bash
# Push a DatasetDict with "success" and "failure" splits
harbor sweeps run \
  --config examples/configs/job.yaml \
  --max-sweeps 3 \
  --trials-per-task 2 \
  --push \
  --export-repo my-org/harbor-sweeps
```

You can also push successes and failures to independent repos by combining `--push` with `--export-separate` (alias `--no-export-splits`) plus `--export-repo-success` and `--export-repo-failure`. These exports reuse the same trace discovery logic and default to the last episode from each trial.

Commit message:

SFT and trajectory config settings

content/docs/sft.mdx, after:

---
title: SFT
description: Generating SFT datasets from Harbor trials
---

Harbor includes utilities for turning trials (agent task completion attempts) into conversational traces that can be fed into supervised fine-tuning pipelines for agentic LLMs. Export helpers live under `harbor.utils.traces_utils` and power several CLI entry points.

<Callout title="Requires ATIF trajectory format" type="info">
The SFT exporter works with any agent that produces trajectories in the [ATIF format](/docs/trajectory-format). This includes Terminus-2, OpenHands, Claude Code, Gemini CLI, and other agents with ATIF support. Agents without ATIF trajectory support cannot be exported.
</Callout>

For best results with SFT data export, configure Terminus-2 with appropriate trajectory settings:

```python
from harbor.models.agent.trajectory_config import TrajectoryConfig

trajectory_config = TrajectoryConfig(
    raw_content=True,      # Preserve exact LLM responses for SFT
    linear_history=True    # Split on summarization for clean sequences
)
```

Learn more about trajectory configuration options in the [Terminus-2 documentation](/docs/terminus-2#trajectory-configuration).

- Each exported row represents one `agent/episode-*` directory and captures the input `debug.json` messages plus the final agent reply from `response.json` or `response.txt`.
- Rows include metadata such as `agent`, `model`, `model_provider`, `task`, `trial_name`, `episode`, and `run_id`, letting you merge runs from multiple jobs.
- `--sharegpt` adds a ShareGPT-style column to support instruction-tuning datasets expecting the `{"from": "...", "value": "..."}` schema.
- Success filtering (`--filter success|failure`) inspects `result.json` and lets you keep only passing or failing attempts for curriculum-style datasets.

Run `harbor traces export` on a trial directory (or a parent directory) to build a `datasets.Dataset`. The command prints the number of rows produced and, when `--push` is set, uploads directly to the Hugging Face Hub.

```bash
harbor traces export \
  --path trials \
  --recursive \
  --episodes last \
  --filter success \
  --sharegpt \
  --push \
  --repo my-org/harbor-terminus2-sft
```

### Key options

import { TypeTable } from 'fumadocs-ui/components/type-table';

<TypeTable
  type={{
    "--episodes": {
      description: "Choose whether every episode (all) or only the final attempt per trial (last) is exported.",
      type: "all | last",
      default: "all"
    },
    "--sharegpt / --no-sharegpt": {
      description: "Adds (or disables) a ShareGPT-compatible column alongside the OpenAI-format conversations.",
      type: "flag",
      default: "Disabled"
    },
    "--filter": {
      description: "Keep only runs with positive (or zero) rewards (when result.json is present).",
      type: "success | failure | all",
      default: "all"
    },
    "--push": {
      description: "Upload the assembled dataset to the repo given by --repo. Provide HF_TOKEN or HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN in your environment for auth.",
      type: "flag",
      default: "Disabled"
    },
    "--verbose": {
      description: "Print per-trial discovery details, useful for debugging missing episodes.",
      type: "flag",
      default: "Disabled"
    }
  }}
/>

If you want to persist the dataset locally (e.g., to Parquet), call the Python helper directly:

```python
from harbor.utils.traces_utils import export_traces

dataset = export_traces("trials", episodes="last", success_filter="success")
dataset.to_parquet("harbor-terminus2-success.parquet")
```

The `datasets` library is an optional dependency; install it if you plan to export traces.

`harbor run` can export traces automatically once a job completes. Pass trace flags alongside your job invocation:

```bash
harbor run \
  --config examples/configs/job.yaml \
  --agent claude-code \
  --model anthropic/claude-3-sonnet-20240229 \
  --export-traces \
  --export-sharegpt \
  --export-episodes last \
  --export-push \
  --export-repo my-org/harbor-job-run
```

When `--export-traces` is set, Harbor exports from the produced job directory using the same machinery as `harbor traces export`. The `--export-*` options mirror the standalone CLI flags and default to in-memory exports unless `--export-push` is provided. Errors during export are surfaced at the end of the job run without interrupting evaluation.

`harbor sweeps run` can emit split datasets that separate successful and failed trajectories. Supply `--push` together with one of the repo arguments:

```bash
# Push a DatasetDict with "success" and "failure" splits
harbor sweeps run \
  --config examples/configs/job.yaml \
  --max-sweeps 3 \
  --trials-per-task 2 \
  --push \
  --export-repo my-org/harbor-sweeps
```

You can also push successes and failures to independent repos by combining `--push` with `--export-separate` (alias `--no-export-splits`) plus `--export-repo-success` and `--export-repo-failure`. These exports reuse the same trace discovery logic and default to the last episode from each trial.
