content/docs/task-difference.mdx, before:

---
title: Differences from Terminal-Bench
description: Explanation of the differences in the task format from Terminal-Bench to Harbor
---

The Harbor iteration of the Terminal-Bench task framework addresses many of the shortcomings we observed in the original framework, including structurally preventing common errors like copying tests into the container image, supporting many different environment definitions, allowing for non-binary rewards, supporting multi-file solutions, improving the intuitiveness of the task structure, and reducing the clutter of the task directory.

## How each component differs from Terminal-Bench

### Instruction

In Terminal-Bench, the instruction was nested in the `task.yaml`. This made viewing the instruction more difficult, made writing `task.yaml` files complicated (due to multiline strings) and often led to formatting issues. Reading task instructions required loading yaml files and indexing into dictionaries.

Harbor addresses this by giving the instruction its own `instruction.md` file. This improves formatting, readability, and loading of instructions.

### Configuration & Metadata

We move `task.yaml` to `task.toml` to improve readability and writability. Metadata is now arbitrary and can consist of any information a task developer wants. Config params are now nested into their respective sections rather than flat. An example is shown below.

```toml
version = "1.0"

[metadata]
author_name = "Steve Jobs"
author_email = "steve@apple.com"
difficulty = "easy"
category = "programming"
tags = ["trivial"]

[verifier]
timeout_sec = 120.0

[agent]
timeout_sec = 120.0

[environment]
build_timeout_sec = 600.0
docker_image = "some-org/some-name:some-tag"
cpus = 1
memory = "2G"
storage = "10G"
```

### Environment

In Terminal-Bench, the only required environment-related file was `docker-compose.yaml`. Typically, this also means a `Dockerfile` would be present in the task, although the exact location was not enforced and it was at times nested in subdirectories. Docker compose introduced issues when trying to support other container runtimes.

Additionally, build context was also placed directly in the task directory, cluttering the folder and reducing readability. Sometimes, this also led to task developers copying `task.yaml`'s or even the `tests/` directory into the image on accident.

In Harbor, we require the environment definition to be placed in an `environment/` folder. **Harbor does not require any specific file to exist in that directory**. Which file is required depends on the environment type being used for the evaluation. For example, to use `--env docker`, the `DockerEnvironment` class checks that an `environment/Dockerfile` is present. Different environment types could require other files to be present (e.g. an Apptainer environment could check for an `image.def` file).

### Solution

The solution folder must contain a `solution/solve.sh` script. Other dependencies are allowed. This folder is copied to `/oracle` by the Oracle agent at runtime and executed from the working directory.

The main difference between Harbor here is that we've moved from a single file solution, `solution.sh` to enabling dependencies.

### Tests

This is the most similar to the original Terminal-Bench setup. The main difference here is that the `run-tests.sh` script from Terminal-Bench is now `tests/test.sh` to reflect the fact that it is part of the test dependencies and is copied to the same location (`/tests`) at runtime by the Harbor harness.

Terminal-Bench tasks specified a parser, implemented as part of the Terminal-Bench repo – NOT as part of the task. The parser was in charge of mapping the test command's stdout to a binary reward. This created an awkward dependency between task logic and Terminal-Bench logic. We've gotten rid of this in Harbor. Tasks are now in charge of producing a reward. Currently, this is done by producing a `/logs/verifier/reward.txt` file.

Most Terminal-Bench tasks can produce a reward by checking the exit code of the `pytest` command:

```bash
# ... test script above

if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
  echo 1 > /logs/verifier/reward.txt
else
  echo 0 > /logs/verifier/reward.txt
fi
```

Commit message:

Add docker compose info to the docs.

content/docs/task-difference.mdx, after:

---
title: Differences from Terminal-Bench
description: Explanation of the differences in the task format from Terminal-Bench to Harbor
---

The Harbor iteration of the Terminal-Bench task framework addresses many of the shortcomings we observed in the original framework, including structurally preventing common errors like copying tests into the container image, supporting many different environment definitions, allowing for non-binary rewards, supporting multi-file solutions, improving the intuitiveness of the task structure, and reducing the clutter of the task directory.

## How each component differs from Terminal-Bench

### Instruction

In Terminal-Bench, the instruction was nested in the `task.yaml`. This made viewing the instruction more difficult, made writing `task.yaml` files complicated (due to multiline strings) and often led to formatting issues. Reading task instructions required loading yaml files and indexing into dictionaries.

Harbor addresses this by giving the instruction its own `instruction.md` file. This improves formatting, readability, and loading of instructions.

### Configuration & Metadata

We move `task.yaml` to `task.toml` to improve readability and writability. Metadata is now arbitrary and can consist of any information a task developer wants. Config params are now nested into their respective sections rather than flat. An example is shown below.

```toml
version = "1.0"

[metadata]
author_name = "Steve Jobs"
author_email = "steve@apple.com"
difficulty = "easy"
category = "programming"
tags = ["trivial"]

[verifier]
timeout_sec = 120.0

[agent]
timeout_sec = 120.0

[environment]
build_timeout_sec = 600.0
docker_image = "some-org/some-name:some-tag"
cpus = 1
memory = "2G"
storage = "10G"
```

### Environment

In Terminal-Bench, the only required environment-related file was `docker-compose.yaml`. Typically, this also means a `Dockerfile` would be present in the task, although the exact location was not enforced and it was at times nested in subdirectories. Docker compose introduced issues when trying to support other container runtimes.

Additionally, build context was also placed directly in the task directory, cluttering the folder and reducing readability. Sometimes, this also led to task developers copying `task.yaml`'s or even the `tests/` directory into the image on accident.

In Harbor, we require the environment definition to be placed in an `environment/` folder. **Harbor does not require any specific file to exist in that directory**. Which file is required depends on the environment type being used for the evaluation. For example, to use `--env docker`, the `DockerEnvironment` class checks that an `environment/Dockerfile` or `environment/docker-compose.yaml` is present. Different environment types could require other files to be present (e.g. an Apptainer environment could check for an `image.def` file). Most cloud sandbox providers only support `Dockerfile` defined environments and not docker compose.

### Solution

The solution folder must contain a `solution/solve.sh` script. Other dependencies are allowed. This folder is copied to `/oracle` by the Oracle agent at runtime and executed from the working directory.

The main difference between Harbor here is that we've moved from a single file solution, `solution.sh` to enabling dependencies.

### Tests

This is the most similar to the original Terminal-Bench setup. The main difference here is that the `run-tests.sh` script from Terminal-Bench is now `tests/test.sh` to reflect the fact that it is part of the test dependencies and is copied to the same location (`/tests`) at runtime by the Harbor harness.

Terminal-Bench tasks specified a parser, implemented as part of the Terminal-Bench repo – NOT as part of the task. The parser was in charge of mapping the test command's stdout to a binary reward. This created an awkward dependency between task logic and Terminal-Bench logic. We've gotten rid of this in Harbor. Tasks are now in charge of producing a reward. Currently, this is done by producing a `/logs/verifier/reward.txt` file.

Most Terminal-Bench tasks can produce a reward by checking the exit code of the `pytest` command:

```bash
# ... test script above

if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
  echo 1 > /logs/verifier/reward.txt
else
  echo 0 > /logs/verifier/reward.txt
fi
```
